1. Explain the output of ls -l command which gives the following sample output
drwxrwxr-x 2 vikash developer 4096 Apr 24 13:00 src/
-rw-rw-r-- 1 vikash developer 1074 Nov 27  2014 LICENSE
Applicable to both

Answer:

We consider as below for better understanding
Field 1	Field 2	Field 3	Field 4	Field 5	Field 6	Field 7	Field 8	Field 9		Field 10
d	rwx	rwx	r-x	2	vikash developer 4096	Apr 24 13:00	src/


field1  - for File, d for Directory, l for Link

The second,third,fourth fields


Those are permissions that means read, write and execute, and comes in three different fields that belongs to the permission the:

second: The owner has over the file
third: The group has over the file
fourth: Everybody else has over the file

The fifth field

This field specifies the number of links or directories inside this directory.

The sixth field is the user

The user that owns the file, or directory

The seventh field is te group

The group that file belongs to, and any user in that group will have the permissions given in the third field over that file.

The eighth field

The size in bytes, you may modify this by using the -h option together with -l this will have the output in k,M,G for a better understanding.

The ninth field

The date of last modification

The tenth field

The name of the directory




2. What's the command to set the file permission of a file "sample.txt to  ?-rwxr-xr--. 
Answer: chmod 754 sample.txt

 
3. What's the command to to change the ownership of the file LICENCE from the owner vikash of develper group to raktim in qa group
Answer: chown vikash:raktim LICENCE

 
4. Count of lines containing word “Perfios” in file.txt: 
Answer:grep -c "Perios" file.txt
 
 
5. Share a sample ansible script that you have written.

To be honest i have overview of Ansible but not written playbook.
 

6. Share the link on Github or any place with sample shell scripts that you have written.
 https://github.com/kalabhairava2017/SCM-DevOps-2017